---
title: "Aliza Zaman: Running a handcrafted jewelry business"
image: /images/aliza.jpg
imageMeta:
  attribution: "For June Co."
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - aaria-thomas
date: April 14 2021
tags:
  - profiles
---

Last June, Aliza Zaman launched her Instagram account, @forjuneco,
showcasing the earrings and necklaces her store sold. At first her
orders came solely from her friends and family supporting her business,
but in July she received her first order from a stranger. Seeing that
order filled Aliza with a feeling of excitement and gratitude that her
hard work was paying off. That one order gave her the confidence to
start expanding her company to reach more people.

Aliza founded her handcrafted jewelry company For June Co. in the summer
of 2020, and since then she has had hundreds of orders. She makes the
pieces herself and sells them for $10 to $20 varying on the piece. She
also donates 10 percent of its sales to non-profits like Givelight
Foundation, Second Harvest Food Bank and American Red Cross.

“I wanted to start For June Co. because I had lots of time during the
start of quarantine and wanted to do something productive and impactful
with it,” Aliza said. “I’ve always wanted to start a business that
donated back to the community, so I took the opportunity to start For
June Co.”

She spent four months setting up the store before its launch in June.
Those first few months entailed setting up an e-commerce website for the
store as well as the company’s social media and reaching out to people
and introducing them to her products via Instagram.

“It was a learning process,” she said. “I’m really glad to have taken
these steps because I feel so much more experienced now.”

Once she got the store running, she spent a minimum of seven hours a
week managing the different aspects of it. One of the most
time-consuming parts of the job is making all the earrings and necklaces
she sells. She has a manufacturer make the parts of all the jewelry, but
she herself spends hours assembling each piece.

Aside from making the jewelry, Aliza also had to manage the budget and
money her company makes. Each month she does an expenses to income
breakdown to figure out how much to spend on making new products,
packaging them, and how much of her profits she will donate.

“Running the company included a lot of being on my toes for everything,”
Aliza said. “At the beginning it was the work of getting everything
running, and after that it was continuing working on how to grow and
reach more people.”

She has sent her jewelry to influencers such as Ashley Alexander and
Vanessa Nagoya, who then advertised the jewelry to their audiences of
hundreds of thousands of teenage girls. She also photographs and posts
her friends modeling her pieces.

Even after almost a year, Aliza is still doing all of the work by
herself and not farming it out to assistants.

In order to balance her commitments, Aliza allocates certain days for
working on her company. She plans her schedule ahead of time, dividing
her time between school work, extracurriculars and her company.

Aliza’s company ties in to her interest in economics, which is what she
will be studying in college. She thinks it will help her make her
business stronger as she goes forward.

Aliza plans to start expanding her business during the summer. She said
she will be searching for a new manufacturer that ensures the materials
she uses are made ethically. Aliza said she will also try to make For
June Co. more eco-friendly by using minimal packaging that is reusable
or recyclable. The website will be updated as well, and she has plans to
add new pieces to her catalogue.

“I’m ecstatic to focus solely on my business this summer,” she said. “It
really feels like one of the only times where I will be able to fully
immerse myself into something I really enjoy building.”

