---
title: "Ask Uncle Iroh"
image: /images/uncle-iroh.png
imageMeta:
  attribution: "Avatar: The Last Airbender"
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - manasi-garg
  - rohan-kumar
date: April 4 2021
tags:
  - columns
---
Our favorite firebender Uncle Iroh answers some of life’s most pressing
questions.

###How do I achieve inner peace?

Over quarantine, I have discovered the hidden power of Chloe Ting
workouts. I have always said that in order to achieve inner peace, you
must first achieve a tough exterior. The way of the six-pack abs is
unsurpassable in that regard.

###Does the tea in the spirit world slap?

Yes. Unfortunately, the only flavor they offer there is Spirit Fruit, so
I go to T-pumps right after just to feel what it is like to have 300
options to choose from. For the record, it feels exemplary.

###Can we go on a spiritual journey that will teach me how to be happy again?

True happiness comes from within. You can only be happy when you find
happiness, so seek out happiness within yourself and you will be happy.
I will note that the single exception to that rule is if you got an
89.49 in AP Physics. Then I am afraid I cannot help you.

###What is the source of all evil?

Zoom. Undoubtedly Zoom. It creates an unnerving disturbance in my
spiritual aura, and breakout rooms cause me a great deal of stress.
Never have I asked myself so many questions that I was simply unable to
answer despite all my wisdom. Should I unmute? Should I turn my camera
on? Should I leave? What happens if the breakout rooms close while I am
in the lavatory?

###Is water wet?

Well, is tea delicious? Only you can decide.

###Is fire flammable?

Well, I may be a firebender, but bending fire does not entail answering
such trivial questions.

###So you don’t know?

I simply believe my knowledge far surpasses that which you can
comprehend, so I would rather not bore you with the details.

###Are you hiring interns?

I am, but I would imagine that 40 hours of mindfulness meditation every
week would not look particularly attractive on the resume of a Saratoga
High School student.

###How can I get an A in Ms. Keys’s class?

True success is measured by your ability to accept life for how it is.
As the kids say these days, “You can’t, bro.”

