---
title: "A definite ruling on the best coffee near Saratoga"
image: /images/coffee.jpg
imageMeta:
  attribution: "Nitya Marimuthu"
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - nitya-marimuthu
date: April 26 2021
tags:
  - columns
---
For most seniors, second semester is the gold at the end of the rainbow.
After years of unrelenting work, second semester senior year is supposed
to be the time to finally take a breath and hang out with friends.
However, with a pandemic raging the world, activities with friends are
highly stunted. Looking for a project to take my semester by storm, I
chose to cultivate my mild obsession with coffee.

With too much time on my hands, a friend who is equally enthusiastic
about coffee and a lack of funds to sponsor this journey, I set out to
find the ULTIMATE coffee. In the spring, I visited as many coffee shops
as I could that were within 20 minutes of Saratoga and had 4+ stars on
Yelp. I also tended toward shops that had interesting takes on coffee
rather than the standard latte, mocha, cappuccino, etc. lineup.

Of the 11 drinks I tried from seven locations, these five coffees took
the prize.

Note: It is an objective truth that coffee tastes better with almond
milk (or oat milk if cow’s milk is the only other choice). I highly
recommend investing the 50 extra cents.

1. Iced Pandan Latte (Almond milk), Academic Coffee, San Jose Downtown

Description: Doubleshot of espresso with almond milk and Pandan syrup,
which is made from a tropical plant commonly used in Southeast Asian
cuisine

Review: After taking a sip of this coffee, I could literally feel my
brain buzzing — not because of the caffeine, but because the flavor was
that good. The drink was smooth and had an interesting nutty-velvety
taste that brought out the espresso while adding a zing. The drink
honestly made me forget how to breathe for a second or two. Considering
that I have a strong aversion to matcha, I thought I would hate the
drink, but it had no hints of the grassiness that matcha does. This
drink frequents my dreams.

2. Iced Rosé with Oat Milk made Philz Way, Philz Coffee, Cupertino

Description: Iced coffee with a rose foam, medium sweet and with medium
milk

Review: I really wanted to avoid putting a chain on this list to seem
more cultured, but the rosé left me no choice. The drink is smooth and
super refreshing. It is a perfect pairing for a crisp morning or a warm
afternoon. Plus, you feel extra bougie drinking it.

3. Iced Vietnamese coffee (with milk), Cam Hung, Sunnyvale

Description: Brewed coffee with condensed milk

Review: This coffee is powerful, both literally and metaphorically.
Vietnamese coffee tends to be on the stronger side, but the condensed
milk brings it to the perfect sweetness while tackling the bitterness of
the espresso. As a plus, the drink comes from banh mi — a Vietnamese
sandwich — shop that also sells delectable pork banh mi and the
pandan-coconut dessert.

4. Hazelnut Latte (Almond milk), Big Mug Coffee Roaster, Santa Clara

Description: Espresso with almond milk and a pump of hazelnut syrup

Review: This drink tasted like a warm hug. If Nutella wafers could
become a drink, it would be this latte. My only qualm about it is that
it tastes more like hazelnut milk than coffee, but then again, it is a
latte.

5. Iced Valencia (Almond milk), Voyager craft coffee, Santa Clara

Description: Espresso with almond milk, coconut cream, vanilla, orange
blossom water and brown sugar

Review: A solid iced coffee, but nothing overly special. The drink is
supposed to have orange blossom water in it, but I honestly tasted no
orange. It was still pleasant, and the espresso was made with care.

Honorable mentions:

Iced Black Tie Cold Brew, Peet's Coffee, Saratoga: A classic

Maple Chameleon coffee with Oat Milk, Whole Foods, Cupertino: Shockingly
divine

