---
title: "Senior finally learns to cook"
image: /images/airfryer.jpg
imageMeta:
  attribution: "Manasi Garg"
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - manasi-garg
date: April 16 2021
tags:
  - columns
---
I’ve never really known how to cook, which I think is very feminist of
me. Unfortunately, cooking is apparently an “important life skill,” and
now that I’m almost an adult, it’s something I have to learn.

Luckily, my family and I recently got an air fryer, a countertop
convection oven that basically blows around hot air until the food
inside is cooked. I know it just seems like another kitchen appliance
fad (something we’re especially prone to falling for — see the unused
Instant Pot, breadmaker and steam oven at home), but the air fryer has
truly been a game changer.

I have friends and family who genuinely love to cook, but unfortunately,
even after sporadically making meals every now and then in an attempt to
find that same satisfaction, I still feel complete apathy toward it.
Once, it took me nearly 2 hours to make broccoli cheese soup. It ended
up being pretty good, but honestly, I’d rather just heat up premade soup
from Safeway than go through the trouble again. If I were rich enough, I
would just DoorDash Chipotle every day.

That’s where the airfryer comes in. They seem to have been specifically
designed for lazy people like me who don’t enjoy cooking — but do enjoy
eating. A lot.

First, my mom and I made some broccoli, and it turned out better than
any broccoli we had ever made. Same with potatoes.

Then, I graduated to making, well, literally everything. I’ve made
chicken better than anything you can get in restaurants by just
marinating them beforehand and popping them in the air fryer for another
10-15 minutes. I even made salmon for the first time, and even though I
usually can’t stand fish, my trusty airfryer made the salmon tolerable
enough when eaten with rice.

The best part is, I don’t need to consult recipes all the time when I’m
cooking. I just choose something edible, dash on some salt, spices and a
pinch of oil, and toss it into the air fryer for 10 to 15 minutes.
Everything that comes out is crispy on the outside, but perfectly tender
on the inside, allowing my incompetent self to masquerade as a culinary
master.

So maybe I still can’t cook rice without asking my mom how to do it. And
baking is definitely out of my league. But at least I can finally make
an entire meal — or get kind of close.

