---
title: "Thank you, English teachers "
image: 
imageMeta:
  attribution: ""
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - kaitlyn-tsai
date: April 19 2021
tags:
  - farewells
---
From teaching us that no, Juliet is not asking where Romeo is, to
walking us through the most ambiguous passages of “Beloved,” English
teachers, you’ve given us arguably the greatest gifts of our high school
careers.

You’ve taught us how to read closely, scrutinizing every passage, every
metaphor, every word of the text to understand the deeper meanings of
even the most confusing pieces, even ones like e.e. cummings’
“r-p-o-p-h-e-s-s-a-g-r.” You’ve sharpened our writing skills beyond
anything our freshman selves could have imagined, arming us with an
arsenal of complex sentence structures and eloquent vocabulary so that
surely, we can at least impress guests at cocktail parties with words
like “verisimilitude.”

But above all, you’ve taught us how to think — how to reflect on the way
war dehumanizes soldiers as depicted in “All Quiet on the Western
Front,” how to analyze John Steinbeck’s “The Grapes of Wrath” for its
commentary on class struggles and the migrant experience during the
Great Depression, how to wrestle with the nuances of the ethical
dilemmas involved issues like affirmative action.

Through everything from novels and poems to daily discussions and
Socratic seminars, you’ve guided us through our explorations of the
world and helped us grapple with some of society’s toughest questions.
From “Of Mice and Men,” we began exploring the various types of
prejudice that existed in the 1930s and plague society today. From “Lord
of the Flies,” we investigated theories on morality and the natural
state of mankind. From “The Great Gatsby,” we grappled with our own
discomfort in understanding how upper-class people (perhaps even like
ourselves) exacerbate the wealth gap. And from “The Awakening,” we
examined hostility toward feminism and the role society plays in
suicides.

English teachers, you’ve changed us from naive, sheltered adolescents to
mature young adults ready to face the complexity of the real world — its
ugliness and beauty, its cruelty and kindness, its brutality and
resilience. And ironically, in a time when we should be proudly
flaunting all that we’ve learned from you, we can find no words to
express the breadth and depth of our gratitude.

Thank you for helping us tap into the power of language and literature,
for showing us how words can transport people into worlds and
experiences like nothing else can. Thank you for showing us how words
can bring pain and discomfort to their readers and, in so doing, foster
empathy and openness and inspire change. And above all, thank you for
giving us the keys to unlock the doors in society that no one has yet
dared to open, to dive headfirst into the questions no one dares to ask
or answer. Murky as these paths are, we know that we can take them one
step at a time, one word at a time, and come back to tell you our
stories.

