---
title: "Fiona Lee: Creating piano covers and music videos"
image: /images/musicvid.jpg
imageMeta:
  attribution: "Fiona Lee"
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - christine-zhang
date: April 13 2021
tags:
  - profiles
---

Although Fiona Lee quit taking piano lessons in elementary school and
never took private lessons during her time playing percussion in middle
and high school band, she had a sudden urge to try playing piano again
as a hobby three years ago. When COVID-19 forced school to turn remote
last March, Fiona — at the suggestion of her physics teacher Jenny
Garcia — decided to take up another hobby with her newfound free time:
creating piano music covers.

“I always find piano music really soothing, and I thought sharing my own
piano versions of songs that people know and like would be a nice thing
to do while we’re all stuck in quarantine,” she said.

Fiona uploads her piano covers and music videos to her blog and YouTube
channel, both of which go by the name “Mimi's Music Garden.”

“I thought the imagery of a garden might fit [a theme of comfort from
quarantine life], so I went with it,” she said. “I chose ‘Mimi’ because
I wanted to incorporate a personal element, and ‘Mimi’ has been my
nickname at home since childhood.”

Her blog has links to videos on her channel as well as additional
information about each video, including the background of the original
music and why she chose to cover each piece. She has covered music from
films, video games, anime and more using the free music arrangement
software MuseScore3. Each piece takes her upwards of five hours to
complete, she said.

She spends around one hour translating one minute of a song into sheet
music, sometimes longer if she gets stuck at a certain part of the
piece. After writing the music, Fiona spends another hour fine-tuning
her work to ensure it sounds “more like it’s performed by a person
rather than just a software tool.”

Recently, Fiona has expanded her repertoire into making music videos
along with her piano covers. For music videos, she needs approximately
four more hours to edit the video clips together and create the featured
images and thumbnails that appear on her blog and YouTube channel.

Fiona is most proud of her piece titled “Xiao's Song ~ Vigilant Yaksha.”
The original music is from the video game Genshin Impact.

“I think I took the most risks with that one,” she said. “There’s a
small section of the music that sounds almost like jazz, unlike the rock
style of the rest of the piece, [because] I completely improvised and
wrote that section. Usually, I’ve stuck relatively closely to the
original song, but this time I tried to put in more of my own ideas into
the music.”

Animating the music video for “Xiao’s Song ~ Vigilant Yaksha” was also
Fiona’s first time using HitFilm Express, a video editing software. She
plans on continuing to hone her editing skills as she creates more
videos.

Although she doesn’t have specific plans for the future of her channel
yet, Fiona knows that she wants to continue creating covers and videos
as she transitions into college and beyond. She plans to study
psychology and is considering a pre-law track at UT Austin, but she
views her piano covers as a creativity outlet and a source of
relaxation, especially during remote learning.

“Even though it can be a bit time consuming sometimes, it’s a really fun
hobby,” she said. “I might expand my covers to any song or soundtrack
instead of limiting it to music from TV and games. I’m just focused on
growing the channel for now, but I’ll definitely be trying new things in
the future.”

