---
title: "There ain’t no party like a Halloween party "
image: /images/cupcakes.jpg
imageMeta:
  attribution: "Megan McMahon"
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - marisa-kingsley-
date: April 13 2021
tags:
  - columns
---

I love my friend group dearly, but one thing we absolutely cannot do is
plan things. At all. The number of times we have tried — and failed — to
plan meet-ups or even coordinate FaceTime calls during quarantine is
borderline shameful. But there is one annual event that we’ve never
screwed up: our Halloween party.

What at first seemed like a one-off event has turned into an annual
tradition for us to unwind and reconnect with our inner child that we so
often try to suppress as adulthood comes hurtling towards us.

Like many long-standing traditions, it’s hard to know when it exactly
started. When consulting our nihilistic group chat, “Lab Rats except for
cereal,” I discovered that our annual Halloween party started in third
grade, when one of my longtime friends, Megan McMahon, invited us to her
house for Halloween festivities and trick-or-treating.

Although I can’t recall any specific events that transpired that night,
I know that a bunch of small children hyped up on sugar somehow managed
to not burn her house to smithereens and we’ve come back every year
since no matter the circumstances. Even during junior year, when most of
us had an APUSH test the next day, we decided to stick it to the man and
play “To Tell The Truth” rather than learn about Andrew Jackson’s pet
banks.

A semi-regular schedule inevitably took shape over the years:

-   Arrive at 5-6 p.m.: Easy enough, but let’s be honest, maybe two of
us got there on time.

-   Decorate cupcakes: It’s about as chaotic as you would expect. The
only rule? Don’t mix the frostings. If one of us didn’t keep a
frosting-laden spoon in its corresponding frosting color bowl, we
would be called out.

-   Play board games: Yes, I’m aware it sounds pretty boring, but when
else can you play a game of Telestrations where a drawing of a
fire alarm is interpreted as someone playing the trumpet?

-   Go trick-or-treating: Obviously. We aren’t heathens.

Of course, I would be remiss to not mention some of the most noteworthy
moments that have occurred over the past ten odd years.

In eighth grade, we decided that rather than pronouncing ourselves at
each house with the lame “trick-or-treat,” we would recite the preamble
to the Constitution that we’d learn in the weeks before in our Core
class. And so we did, at every house, for three hours. For the people
who actually answered the door, they seemed mildly impressed that we
went through the trouble of coordinating it to be fully in unison. Who
said that public education was useless?

Fast forward to our sophomore year, we had all finished reading “Lord of
the Flies” and decorated our cupcakes to reflect the most valuable
lessons William Goulding’s work had imparted upon us. Needless to say,
many of our cupcakes were adorned with generous amounts of red icing
(representing blood, naturally) and depictions of broken glasses and
dead pigs with enough allusions to id and ego to make Freud beam with
pride.

Of course, it would be heinous of me not to include a word about our
many group costumes. During sophomore year, my friend and I agreed to
both dress up as our future selves, who also happened to be hardcore
soccer moms. On Halloween, we both carried around tangerines and juice
packs while wearing workout gear, chunky tennis shoes and our hair up in
high ponytails, all in the name of ensuring our little tots could play
their best in their AYSO games.

When junior year rolled around, three of us thought to commemorate our
many ironic binge-watching sessions of 2000s-era Barbie movies by
dressing up as the main characters of the absolute classic, “Barbie of
Swan Lake.” Since I'm the only one out of us who has blonde hair, I was
naturally suited to be Barbie. I did not, however, wear my costume to
school, as I needed to keep a shred of my dignity intact.

This last year, we had a socially distanced gathering, and three of us
unknowingly came dressed up as characters from the podcast “The Magnus
Archives.” If that isn’t friendship at it’s finest, I don’t know what
is.

As our years of growing up together are quickly coming to a close, it’s
unclear how this long-standing tradition will evolve. As we continue on
our quest to be competent adults in college, no doubt the need for us to
reconnect with the uncomplicated times of our childhood will only grow.
But no matter how this tradition will manifest itself, there is one
thing that remains for certain: We will find a way to recite the
preamble of the Constitution ad nauseam.

