---
title: "Helena Lee: Writer's identity emerges over time"
image: /images/helena.jpg
imageMeta:
  attribution: "Helena Lee"
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - angelina-chen
  - samantha-yee
date: April 26 2021
tags:
  - profiles
---

During the Spring break of her sophomore year, Helena Lee stood in the
crowd at Caffe Frascati in San Jose, anxious about the number of adult
poetry enthusiasts around her. Her latte trembled slightly in her hand
as she practiced her poem, “The City,” about her apprehension of her
unknown future.

As Lee stepped up to the stage and began her poem, she heard the chatter
quiet down until it was silent in the cafe. The more she recited her
poem, the more alive and in touch with her emotions she felt. After the
last line, the cafe erupted into applause and shouted words of praise
and encouragement.

Because of the crowd’s supportive environment, Helena was happy to have
shared her work at the open mic, her first public emergence into the
poetry world.

Listening in the audience, Helena empathized with the experiences of the
diverse stories at the open mic. She also noticed the powerful poetry
reciting and writing techniques the poets practiced to emphasize their
ideas.

“When done correctly, repetition can be very powerful,” Helena said.
“One performer emphasized the word ‘childish’ by repeating it to express
the criticism she received when trying to break out of her comfort zone
and just do things for the sake of her enjoyment.”

Helena started her poetry journey in middle school English classes. She
felt it was freeing to be unrestrained by grammar rules for
capitalization, punctuation and even spelling. To her, writing poetry
was all about exploring her feelings.

She writes her poems in the Notes app on her phone, rambling about her
emotions or personal hardships in messy, colloquial language before
shaping them into a more polished final form.

“I feel like poetry is a way of organizing your thoughts and making sure
they're clear while also giving you the liberty to have fun with
artistic expression,” Helena said.

The same year she went to the open mic, Helena participated in Poetry
Out Loud, a national poetry recitation competition that provides
resources for students to study poetry. The experience inspired her own
writing as she empathized with the poets she listened to.

The summer after sophomore year, she participated in the program that
had the most impact on her writing, Education Unlimited, a camp where
students can choose from a wide range of classes from astrophysics to
art.

For six weeks at Education Unlimited, Helena practiced creative writing,
a topic she grew interested in as she began writing more poetry. At the
camp, Helena met writers from all over the world, introducing her to a
plethora of new ideas and perspectives.

“I met a girl from Puerto Rico who wrote a very powerful piece using the
imagery of her island on fire as a metaphor for the political turmoil
taking place in Puerto Rico,” Helena said.

Because classes happened seven days a week, Helena felt that her writing
ability greatly improved from the feedback, group discussions and
writing workshops.

In her junior year, as an English 11 Honors assignment, Helena submitted
a collection of poems and stories to the National Council of Teachers of
English contest to answer that year’s prompt “Why I Write.” The
collection described different “aha!” moments in stages of her life,
from embracing her body to loving the quirks that make up her
personality.

“The poems talked about loving and embracing my identity as well as my
physical appearance because since there’s nothing I can do to change it,
I might as well just love it,” Helena said.

This collection of moments won her one of the three Superior Writing
Awards given to Saratoga students that year.

Today, Helena continues to write poetry in her free time and has begun
to pen short stories. She is also thinking of writing a book on her
Asian American experience in light of the recent racial violence against
Asian Americans.

“Writing helps me organize my emotions by creating characters to go
through similar experiences that I went through,” Helena said.
“Especially during a time as isolating as the pandemic, these characters
provided me with a sense of comfort and an outlet for my thoughts and
emotions.”

