---
title: "Introvert vs. isolation: Who really won?"
image: /images/kaitlyn-baking.jpg
imageMeta:
  attribution: "Kaitlyn Tsai"
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - kaitlyn-tsai
date: April 9 2021
tags:
  - columns
---
I’ve never been a social creature. As a toddler, I would hide behind my
mother’s legs whenever anyone tried to approach me. I spent the first
half of elementary school largely alone, nose buried in books while my
peers played wallball or four-square or lept around the playground.

Even now, I don’t socialize as much as most of my peers do. Sure, I’ve
stayed in contact with some of my friends over text, but even
pre-pandemic, I almost never went out, electing instead to tackle my
seemingly never-ending high school workload.

To be clear, it’s not that I don’t enjoy being around my friends; some
of the happiest moments of my life have been with them. But I don’t need
to be around other people 24/7. Frankly, I would prefer not to be.

When quarantine rolled around, I viewed it as a challenge: Sure, I’m
introverted, but did that mean I could survive an indefinite amount of
time with little or no in-person social interaction?

As it turns out, yes. I passed this test with flying colors.

My 20-year-old sister started going stir-crazy around two or three
months into quarantine. I understood how she felt and why — isolation
can’t be healthy for anyone — but I’d be lying if I said I felt even an
ounce of the agitation and despondency she felt.

Frankly, I reveled in the quiet, the way life seemed to have slowed to a
near standstill. I’d spent years burying myself in work, barely managing
to catch my breath during breaks. But with the reduced workload and
lighter schedules of online learning, coupled with the lack of commute
time for extracurriculars, I finally had a chance to breathe while we
all took stock of how we were to adapt to what became the new normal.

The uncertainty, the initial quiet provided perfect grounds for a reset,
which was just what I needed to tackle all that lay ahead in the
remainder of one of the most chaotic years in history.

For much of summer vacation and first semester, I wrote mind-numbing
essay after mind-numbing essay for college applications. I met
constantly with staff members and the Anti-Racism Task Force to
diversify our humanities curricula and plan initiatives to foster a more
socially-aware environment.

As a mock trial team co-captain, I worked to bring the 15-memer, very
inexperienced team into competition shape. I wrote extensively to
process the overwhelming amalgam of anxiety, grief, rage, relief and joy
that came with 2020. And, of course, I edited stories and layouts for
The Falcon when I didn’t want to do anything else — which happened quite
often.

With so much to do, I simply didn’t have the time to feel bored and
lonely. Even when I wasn’t working, I took advantage of my extra time to
delve into activities I never had the chance to fully pursue before.

I started baking, filling our kitchen with the aroma of banana bread,
cookies and matcha pound cake. I learned how to sew, creating floppy
bucket hats from old T-shirts and a jacket from old jeans. And for the
first time since I stopped taking piano lessons at the end of first
semester junior year, I paid sloppy respects to Chopin and Beethoven,
giggling as my once-deft fingers fumbled through pieces that brought
waves of nostalgia washing over me.

And I read. To be honest, for the first two years of high school, I
barely read any books outside of those I had to for my English classes.
With newfound quarantine time, I began devoured everything from Michelle
Alexander’s “The New Jim Crow” to Chanel Miller’s “Know My Name” to Kurt
Vonnegut’s “Slaughterhouse-Five.” (As I write, I’m in the middle of
consuming — or rather, being consumed by — the last of R.F. Kuang’s “The
Poppy War” trilogy.)

Although I do miss my friends, there’s also something comforting and
grounding in simply spending time with yourself. I relished in the
quietness of my walks, the way I was able to just focus on the wind on
my face and let my mind roam. Sometimes, in a catlike fashion, I found a
patch of sunlight in the middle of our hallway and curl up in it,
spacing out and enjoying the warmth on my skin.

In a year fraught with seemingly endless tension, these moments of peace
and solitude functioned as small beacons of light, opportunities for
healing and seeking joy in little things when everything else feels big
and overwhelming.

Still, as the end of the quarantine approached, I’ve found myself
thinking more and more about everything I haven’t been able to do in
over a year — meet up with friends, interact with peers and teachers in
person, eat at a restaurant, maybe even travel. Part of me, like
everyone else, longs for this life. But honestly, if you ever need me,
chances are, you’ll still find me curled up at home, book in hand,
happily alone.

