---
title: "Thank you, math teachers"
image: 
imageMeta:
  attribution: ""
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - christine-zhang
date: April 23 2021
tags:
  - farewells
---
Math might be one of the subjects where we’ve learned the most over the
past four years. From knowing only how to factor quadratics to learning
how to find all the complex roots of polynomials, we’ve certainly come a
long way. In math, we discovered how simple equations could form
beautiful polar graphs of roses, and we learned to apply formulas to
real-life scenarios.

You taught us just how interesting numbers and shapes could be, and you
even inspired some of us to pursue career paths in math. Math, after
all, is the perfect example of how new knowledge builds on prior
knowledge; without your lessons, many of us taking math classes in
college would be completely lost. Year after year, graduates say how
well prepared they are for the next level.

But even for those not moving on to a career involving math, you’ve been
an invaluable piece of our high school years. Although we might forget
the exact steps of solving trigonometric integrals or calculating
z-scores in the next few years, no matter where our future brings us,
we’ll remember the most important mathematical skill of all: how to
tackle problems with a calm, clear mind.
Math teachers, you’re some of the best we’ve ever had. We’d like to give
a special shout-out to Mrs. Jennifer Mantle, who went through so much
personally over the past four years yet still stayed strong to teach us
day after day: a tree falling in a storm and destroying much of her
family’s Boulder Creek home and displacing them for months, a
once-in-century fire in the Santa Cruz Mountains later threatening that
same home (luckily, it survived) and the trauma and stress of online
teaching, to mention some of the most notable.

Through watching our math teachers, we learned not only about matrices
and the Law of Sines but also what great teachers are made of. Thank you
for your endless patience, enthusiasm and passion in guiding us through
the complex world of numbers.

