---
title: "Nathan Oh: Basketball player’s dedication strengthens over the years"
image: /images/nathan.jpg
imageMeta:
  attribution: "Nathan Oh"
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - samantha-yee
date: April 26 2021
tags:
  - profiles
---

When Nathan Oh is on the court, he isn’t thinking about how to get
around his opponent or what play to run next. He’s played basketball for
over 10 years, and now his modus operandi in the sport is what he calls
his blank mind.

Oh has learned to play calmly by using his instincts, a product of
countless hours of practice and commitment.

Oh started practicing the sport regularly in third grade. He played for
National Junior Basketball (NJB) in elementary school and joined the Top
Flight Elite Basketball program during middle school, when he went to
the BASIS Independent Silicon Valley private school.

Although he was already experienced with basketball by his freshman
year, Oh felt like a lost fish in the sea and was unable to make varsity
and had to settle for JV. His feelings of hopelessness made him lose his
aggressiveness.

During games, Oh kept passing open shots to upperclassmen instead of
shooting or taking the ball to the hoop.

“I never really played for myself,” Oh said. “I was a complete shell of
myself and I really suffered.”

Ever since Oh didn’t make varsity in his freshman year, he dedicated
more time to training, averaging about two hours daily.

During many of these sessions he was coached by Thomas Marlen, who
advised him to be more assertive and play to his own strengths instead
of worrying about making mistakes. Currently, Oh and Marlen still keep
working after hours of regular practicing to further sharpen Oh’s
dribbling and shooting skills.

He made it into varsity as a sophomore, although barely getting any
playing time. During his junior year, he was able to play more minutes
during games before becoming a main offensive threat and part of the
starting lineup as a senior.

He participates in tournaments with the school team and his Amateur
Athletic Union (AAU) team.

Over Oh’s years in high school, he’s increased his practice hours.
Preseason, he regularly practices on the courts and during the season,
the team practices average two to three hours long.

Although he doesn’t plan on pursuing basketball in college, Oh currently
practices four and a half hours a day, occasionally testing his skills
by playing pickup basketball on outdoor courts.

“His playstyle is all about playing aggressively,” senior Justin Guo
said. “He’s a shifty driver, above average shooter and so ridiculously
quick.”

Even after his freshman year, Oh’s competitiveness and skills kept his
love of basketball strong, and motivated him throughout high school. As
a senior, he’s learned to enjoy playing by focusing his thoughts solely
on the game at hand, living in the moment.

“Basketball taught me life lessons like to always work hard, be selfless
and how nothing always goes your way,” Oh said. “It can be a teacher to
anyone and it really reveals your character and where you need to
improve. It shaped my character and without basketball, I wouldn’t know
who I would be today.”

