---
title: "Oliver Ye: Senior leads educational nonprofit"
image: /images/svy.jpg
imageMeta:
  attribution: "Silicon Valley Youth"
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - andrew-li
date: April 25 2021
tags:
  - profiles
---
When Silicon Valley Youth (SVY) was founded in 2016 by two Gunn High
School students, Oliver Ye was the first member to join the team. Five
years later, he is now the president of the 501(c)(3) nonprofit with a
team of around 55 volunteers who teach nontraditional courses to over
200 students, raising money for local underfunded school districts.

Oliver’s journey with the organization began in 2015, when he met the
two Gunn students, then-juniors Benjamin and Bryan Owens, at a debate
summer camp. After noticing they were proficient public speakers, Oliver
reached out to them.

“At that point, I didn't really have the idea of starting a nonprofit,
but I wanted to learn from them,” Oliver said. “I wondered if they were
interested in starting a magazine analysis club for me and my friends,
and they said yes.”

At that time, Donald Trump was running for the presidency, and Oliver
and his friends spent eight to nine weeks reading issues of Time
magazine and learning about the government and other issues. Nine weeks
later, the club had around eight members who had enjoyed the experience
and wanted to spread the word, so the Gunn students decided to start
charging money for the program and donating all the money to East Palo
Alto schools where they were tutoring at the time.

Because they started charging money, the Gunn students decided to get
SVY officially incorporated by California, meaning it was now recognized
as a legal nonprofit recognized and founded in California.

One day after the organization was incorporated by California, the Gunn
students recruited Oliver as a secretary. Oliver was chosen to be the
first non-founding member of the organization because he contributed
heavily to the organization’s early recruitment efforts.

As the organization grew into a more structured educational nonprofit,
Oliver taught courses from his living room as an eighth grader and asked
his friends from his soccer team if they were interested in sending
their younger siblings to his house on weekends to learn about topics
such as U.S. history and George Orwell’s “Animal Farm.”

As a secretary, he was also in charge of taking meeting minutes.

“Even though that was not a super critical role to the entire
organization, it was very big on personal development because I got to
attend executive meetings and board meetings that the two co-founders
had with district superintendents,” Oliver said.

Oliver’s responsibilities grew over time, and soon he devised a new
interview and mentoring system to add more teenage teachers to the SVY
team. Soon, the organization grew large enough to form various
departments for different subjects, and Oliver became the vice president
of the science department in 2017.

“As department VP, I helped train and guide teachers in the science
department,” Oliver said. “What I enjoyed the most was seeing these new
teachers who started out just as I did with little experience grow into
confident leaders and inspiring teachers. I enjoyed working with them
every week and watching as they built bonds with their students and
improved their presentation skills just as I had done.”

After two years of overseeing physics, chemistry and biology courses as
VP of Science, he became president of SVY in 2019.

Currently, Oliver leads SVY in its efforts to help the East Palo Alto
and South San Jose districts by raising money through classes like
Science Bowl, public speaking and web design. Oliver has helped grow the
organization to service around 210 students and is looking to expand to
the Boston area since there are already students learning remotely from
there.

The organization has also run several charity events, including one in
March of 2020 where they started a personal protective equipment (PPE)
donation drive and donated over ten thousand masks, including over 2,000
handmade masks that were sewn by community members SVY recruited.

Once Oliver graduates from high school, he will not be able to guide
SVY’s day-to-day actions, but will still guide the general direction of
the nonprofit organization as a board member.

Oliver said that his goals and motivations for being a part of SVY have
changed over the years.

“Initially, my mission was to grow my public speaking skills, learn to
teach some classes, learn to interact with some adults and improve my
social skills,” Oliver said. “Over time, the motivation definitely
changed for me, from teaching for myself to teaching for the students.
Gradually, it has been more about giving back to the community and
making sure that students in all areas of our community get equal
education.”

Oliver says that he is going to put these lessons to good use when he
studies business management and some form of engineering at UC Berkeley
in the fall.

“I think that I've always been driven to make an impact on the world
around me, whether that's in my direct community or in the broader sense
of helping others live better lives,” Oliver said, “and since I'm not
quite sure about what I want to do exactly, I feel like this major will
be the best launchpad towards figuring out just exactly how I wish to
achieve my goals.”

