---
title: "Stefano Corno: From player to creator"
image: /images/game.png
imageMeta:
  attribution: "Stefano Corno"
  attributionLink:
featured: true
authors:
  - andrew-li
  - alan-zu
date: April 1 2021
tags:
  - profiles
---
With newfound free time on their hands, many students found ways to
connect with friends during quarantine by playing online games. Stefano
Corno took that one step further by making his own.

Corno has always wanted to program video games primarily because his
father didn’t like him playing games.

“Whenever he saw me gaming, he would say, ‘It’s way more fun to be the
one programming the games than the one playing them,’” Corno said. “That
has always stuck with me.”

Corno first learned how to program in Java during his freshman year
through participating in robotics and taking a course taught by Sriram
Rao, a local tutor. He then started “messing around” in Java using the
Swing library, a graphical user interface (GUI) widget toolkit, and
tried to create a few simple games.

Corno also tried using Unity, a cross platform game development
platform, but could never really understand how to use it. Then, during
this past summer, Corno learned about another game development platform
called Godot, which he found more intuitive.

Using Godot, Corno created an online version of Pong and this spring was
working on a 3D game about pirates.

He also wanted to participate in “game jams,” which are timed
competitions in which participants code a video game from scratch, as he
was inspired by game developer YouTubers such as Miziziziz and Mark
Brown.

For a long time, he avoided game development engines because he wanted
to see how he could structure a game by himself. Since he liked
developing games from scratch, Corno said he was inspired by heavily
popular video games also made from scratch.

“Another main catalyst for game development was just playing Minecraft a
lot,” Corno said. “And since it's basically open source with all the
mods and it's one of the few major games programmed mainly from scratch
in Java, I thought it might be interesting to see what I could do with
Java as well.”

Still, Corno said most of the games he codes are experimental and are
not fun to play.

“When I approach game development, I don't do it with a specific end
goal or game idea in mind,” Corno said. “I like game development and
programming in general because it's a way to explore what goes on behind
the scenes in computers. I use games as a vessel to explore cool stuff I
want to learn more about.”

In college, Corno would like to advance his interests in computer
science through theory or math. Maintaining an open mind, Corno wants to
continue collecting and exploring ideas, developing his game hobby.

“I’m really interested in combinatorics and applying it to logic. Think
of Minecraft redstone computers,” Corno said. “I plan to still make
games in college casually, and in fact I’m hoping to be inspired by my
studies to make a cool puzzle game or something.”

